================================
XCrysDen on Windows10 under WSL
================================

milias@Miro:~/snap$ wget http://www.xcrysden.org/download/xcrysden-1.6.2-linux_x86_64-shared.tar.gz

milias@Miro:~/snap$ tar xvzf xcrysden-1.6.2-linux_x86_64-shared.tar.gz

milias@Miro:~/snap/xcrysden-1.6.2-bin-shared$ sudo apt-cache search fftw3

milias@Miro:~/snap/xcrysden-1.6.2-bin-shared$ sudo apt-get install libfftw3-bin

Missing:
/home/milias/snap/xcrysden-1.6.2-bin-shared/bin/xcrys: error while loading shared libraries: libtk8.6.so: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory

milias@Miro:~/snap/xcrysden-1.6.2-bin-shared$ sudo apt-cache search libtk8
libtk8.6 - Tk toolkit for Tcl and X11 v8.6 - run-time files

milias@Miro:~/snap/xcrysden-1.6.2-bin-shared$ sudo apt-get install libtk8.6

/home/milias/snap/xcrysden-1.6.2-bin-shared/bin/xcrys: error while loading shared libraries: libTogl.so.2: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory

milias@Miro:~$ lsb_release -a
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID: Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu 22.04.3 LTS
Release:        22.04
Codename:       jammy

 sudo apt update
 sudo apt upgrade
 
milias@Miro:~/snap/xcrysden-1.6.2-bin-shared$ sudo apt-cache search togl

milias@Miro:~/snap/xcrysden-1.6.2-bin-shared$ sudo apt-get install libtogl2

/home/milias/snap/xcrysden-1.6.2-bin-shared/bin/xcrys: error while loading shared libraries: libGLU.so.1: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory

milias@Miro:~/snap/xcrysden-1.6.2-bin-shared$ sudo apt-cache search libglu
milias@Miro:~/snap/xcrysden-1.6.2-bin-shared$ sudo apt-get install libglu1-mesa

/home/milias/snap/xcrysden-1.6.2-bin-shared/bin/ftnunit: error while loading shared libraries: libgfortran.so.5: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory

milias@Miro:~/snap/xcrysden-1.6.2-bin-shared$ sudo apt-get install libgfortran-10-dev

works
~~~~~

milias@Miro:~/snap/xcrysden-1.6.2-bin-shared$ ./xcrysden

+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
|*****************************************************************|
|*                                                               *|
|*  XCrySDen -- (X-Window) CRYstalline Structures and DENsities  *|
|*               =         ===         =              ===        *|
|*---------------------------------------------------------------*|
|*                                                               *|
|*    Anton Kokalj (tone.kokalj@ijs.si)                          *|
|*    Jozef Stefan Institute, Ljubljana, Slovenia                *|
|*                                                               *|
|*    Copyright (c) 1996--2019 by Anton Kokalj                   *|
|*                                                               *|
|*****************************************************************|
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+

  Version: 1.6.2

  Please report bugs to: tone.kokalj@ijs.si


  TERMS OF USE:
  -------------
  XCRYSDEN is released under the GNU General Public License.

  Whenever graphics generated by XCRYSDEN are used in scientific
  publications, it shall be greatly appreciated to include an explicit
  reference. The preferred form is the following:

  [ref] A. Kokalj, J. Mol. Graph. Model., Vol. 17, pp. 176-179, 1999.
        Code available from http://www.xcrysden.org/.

XCRYSDEN_TOPDIR=/home/milias/snap/xcrysden-1.6.2-bin-shared
XCRYSDEN_SCRATCH=/tmp

Running on platform : unix
   Operating system : Linux
Executing: /home/milias/snap/xcrysden-1.6.2-bin-shared/bin/ftnunit
Viewer: mesaWid = .mesa
