MESSAGE
=======

dear collegues,

we have now made avaliable on summit and installation of the dirac23 release.

before you start any calculations, you should copy /gpfs/alpine/proj-shared/chp109/dirac/configuration-files/dot-diracrc-chp109 to ~/.diracrc (if you haven't done it already).

after that is done, you can have a look in the directory:

/gpfs/alpine/proj-shared/chp109/incite2023/summit/example-runs/release-23

there you'll find the setup, including examples of submission scripts, for some some sample runs:

a. ccsd(t) energies, and analytic expectation values with canonical orbitals;

b. the same models, but using mp2 frozen natural orbitals (truncation to occupation numbers smaller than 1e-5, a parameter than can be changed)

for case (b) calculations proceed in 2 (or 3) steps: in the first, a mp2 calculation with as much as possible of the virtual space (ideally all of it) is carried out, and the resulting checkpoint file (which will now contain the new virtual space) can be used for the actual energy or expectation value calculation. the third step would be to calculate the expectation values from the CC density matrix (which is why it's useful to always save the density matrix after a ground-state energy + lambda equation calculation).

as i haven't yet managed to create a module for the installation, there's a few lines of setup in the submission scripts pointing to the build directory etc. please don't change them before discussing with the development team.

i suggeste that you don't immediately go for large-scale runs but rather explore how to run and setup calculations with smaller jobs.

also, it would be really useful if you could gather the data generated by the exatensor library (the qforce.*.log files) for your different runs, and added them here: 

/gpfs/alpine/proj-shared/chp109/exacorr-runtime-data/

this would help us better understand how the code performs - if you do gather this information, please create compressed tar files to keep storage and inode usage (# of files) to a minimum, and please make mention of the kind of run, and on how many nodes it ran. if you don't understand what i'm talking about, please say so and i will try to better explain it.

finally, a few things that you have to be mindful of, from prior experience:

a. please check whether a calculation is stuck (e.g. you see an error at some point but the calculation is still running) - if that appears to be the case, kill it instead of waiting for the maximum run time to expire.

b. if you realize that, in the transformation from ao to mo basis at the start of the exacorr run, each pass is taking more that a few minutes, you may want to kill the job and start over, as it may not go to the end - unlike relccsd, exacorr does not have  checkpointing and therefore you want to get the calculation to the end in one go.

if you need help in setting calculations, or get stuck please let us know.

best regards,

andre
